---
title: Ethiopia Sidama Nansebo 
date: 2017-11-17T18:34:08
tags: [ ethiopia, sidama-nansebo ]
guid: b5142089-6413-417e-9b2c-08fea80ba11c
total_roast: 11m20s
first_crack: 8m
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.03
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

> Nansebo has an herbal sweetness like rue, backed with a flavor of white honey
> in City/City+ roasting that makes for a deliciously sweet Ethiopian cup. Clove
> spice hints mark the dry fragrance, along with perfumed orange smells in our
> light roasts. The wet aroma has a canned peach scent that culminates in a
> likeness of peach pie with graham cracker crust. As a brewed coffee, Nansebo
> pushes a deep level of honey sweetness at a wide range of roasts, City and
> City+ roasts striking a nice level of balance between fruited sweetness and a
> orange-like brightness. The cooling cup offers glimpses of stone fruit and
> citrus notes too, tart apricot, nectarine, and a slightly underripe orange
> flavor register. There's a contrasting, pleasant bittering sensation too that
> reminds me of peach skins too, sweet-to-tart flavors rounding out the long
> finish. Full City roast bear some darker fruited notes, plum and prune juice,
> but in low volume comparatively to core bittersweetness of honey-backed cocoa
> powder. Acidity is more muted at Full City too, and I found ours to make
> incredible single origin espresso. Espresso shots have focuesed fruited notes,
> blueberry and dark chocolate, tenedam spice, fresh coriander, and a nice
> citrus zing.

---

Acidity: Definitely a citrusy kick.

Sweetness: The sweetness in this coffee is good, not overbearing, but strange.
It's hard to place where it is.

Mouthfeel: Somewhat astringent.  I don't think this was underroasted but it may
have been underdeveloped, given the weight loss.

Flavor: This is much richer than [the last Ethiopian I had](/posts/2017-11-15/);
not to say I prefer the last one but it was more approachable.  I would mostly
compare it to plums and plum juice.

Finish: A lot of the flavor lingers in the finish, instead of what usually is at
best a ghost of the flavor.

Balance: This is a good coffee but I need to spend more time with it to really
get it.  The rich plum notes are great but so unusual I am still trying to
figure it out.

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224346/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-sidama-nansebo
