---
title: Ethiopia Grade 1 Dry Process Yirga Cheffe Dumerso
date: 2017-12-16T09:53:39
tags: [ ethiopia, grade-1, dry-process, yirga-cheffe, dumerso ]
guid: f98e617f-a62e-4b1b-9513-ccb42816ef73
total_roast: 12m2s
first_crack: 9m17s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.016
weight_loss: 15
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224429/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-gr-1-dry-process-yirg-dumerso

> This Dumerso dry-processed lot is a powerhouse in terms of fruit-forward
> aromatics. The dry-fragrance has a cornucopia of fruits, raspberry and ripe
> blueberry, Turkish apricots, grape juice, along with a substantial backdrop of
> bittersweet burnt sugars. The fruits approach floral dimensions, and a start
> jasmine note accents the ground coffee. The wet aromatics are equally intense,
> a representation of blackberry and strawberry toppings, a hint of dried mango,
> and a cacao-like bittersweetness in our roasts closer to Full City. The cup is
> predictably, loaded with fruit flavors, an uncompromising array of ripe and
> dry fruited notes that roasts north of 2nd snaps do little to tame. From
> tropical to temperate, fruits like strawberry, ripe blueberry, fruit lambic,
> jack fruit, and pineapple build as the cup temperature cools, and a mixed
> berry jam note lingers in the aftertaste. We found City roasts to have a
> citric quality too, like orange rind, a tartness that gives off acidic
> impression adding structure to the complex range of flavor notes. An
> impressive jasmine grace note shows clearly at a fairly wide roast range,
> adding to the complex layers of flavor. Full City roasts boast thick body,
> sticky fruit flavors, and a healthy backing of high % cacao bar. This coffee
> sits very heavy on the palate and keeps delivering through the long
> aftertaste.

## Roast Notes

It was particularly windy today, so I tried to use the top of the bread machine
as a sheild against the wind to maintain the heat in the basket.  Additionally,
I put cold packs in the metal bowls while I was roasting in the hopes that the
cold metal bowls would cool off the coffee more when I was pouring back and
forth.  I used a paper towel to ensure that they were dry before pouring back
and forth.  I think it helped.

Interestingly, preheating the basket didn't seem to help as much this time.
Maybe the wind cancelled it out?
