---
title: Colombia Nariño Rio Juanambú
date: 2017-12-09T13:59:04
tags: [ colombia, rio-juanambú, nariño ]
guid: 9748b4ae-3cdf-4894-8469-6dca6f822986
total_roast: 12m5s
first_crack: 9m11s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 0.996
weight_loss: 17
rating: 3
---

## Sweet Maria's

(From Google Cache:)

> The dry fragrance of Juanambú has a butter toffee nut smell to it, City and
> City+ roasts offer caramel/toffee overtones, with roasted almond and black
> walnut smells underneath. The level of sweetness is prominent in the wet
> aroma, a scent of fresh baked cinnamon rolls with white icing, and a strong
> note of caramelizing sugars. The cup has raw sugar sweetness that comes off in
> layers; dark brown sugar, vanilla caramels, malt syrup, and honeyed hints. At
> City there is a lemon vibrance that intensifies as the cup cools, tart, and
> tea-like, and subtle fruited notes of golden raisin and date pieces pop up.
> The finish is sweet in the short run, shifting to a long bittersweet end. This
> bittersweetness is more dominant in Full City roasts, but the sweet side of
> this equation is really hard to beat, let alone eclipse. I loved the
> brightness and fruit notes captured in our light roasts, but this is also a
> great option for those looking for coffees suited for 2nd snaps. Juanambú is
> made up of really dense beans (as a result of cultivar and altitude) that can
> handle high heat without issue.

---

## Roast Notes

Four minutes of preheating the bucket again.  Significant weight loss and much
faster than [last time](/posts/2017-11-23/).

## Cupping

Acidity: Acidic bite right at the beginning.  Hard to pull it apart from
"Colombian"-flavored.

Sweetness: I am not at this time detecting any sweetness.

Mouthfeel: Surprisingly oily.

Flavor: This has a weird coppery flavor.  Like stewed fruit with blood or
something.

Finish: Incredibly light finish given how powerful the main flavor is.

Balance: I would call this a success.  It's still the weakest coffee of the lot,
but after changing up the roast a bit I do think I enjoy this rendition.
