---
title: Colombia Nariño Rio Juanambú
date: 2017-11-23T09:42:37
tags: [ colombia, rio-juanambú, nariño ]
guid: b60a6ea6-0e24-4899-8f37-fad2ab5db26b
total_roast: 13m32s
first_crack: 10m24s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 0.983
weight_loss: 18
rating: 3
---

## Sweet Maria's

(From Google Cache:)

> The dry fragrance of Juanambú has a butter toffee nut smell to it, City and
> City+ roasts offer caramel/toffee overtones, with roasted almond and black
> walnut smells underneath. The level of sweetness is prominent in the wet
> aroma, a scent of fresh baked cinnamon rolls with white icing, and a strong
> note of caramelizing sugars. The cup has raw sugar sweetness that comes off in
> layers; dark brown sugar, vanilla caramels, malt syrup, and honeyed hints. At
> City there is a lemon vibrance that intensifies as the cup cools, tart, and
> tea-like, and subtle fruited notes of golden raisin and date pieces pop up.
> The finish is sweet in the short run, shifting to a long bittersweet end. This
> bittersweetness is more dominant in Full City roasts, but the sweet side of
> this equation is really hard to beat, let alone eclipse. I loved the
> brightness and fruit notes captured in our light roasts, but this is also a
> great option for those looking for coffees suited for 2nd snaps. Juanambú is
> made up of really dense beans (as a result of cultivar and altitude) that can
> handle high heat without issue.

---

Acidity: I am not sure if it's acidity I'm tasting but there is a sour note at
the back when tasting this coffee.  I'm torn between calling it sour and "bad."

Sweetness: There's an odd smokey sweetness in the finish if this coffee.

Mouthfeel:  Oily.

Flavor: The flavor immediately hits me hard like the smell of coffee from my
childhood.  It's not fruity in any way and reminds me of some kind of crude oil
more than anything.

Finish: I would say this coffee has more finish flavor than flavor, which is
odd.  I don't love it though.

Balance: I don't like this coffee.  I'll see if it grows on me in future
tastings and roastings.

**Note:** This coffee is almost surely overroasted.  I accidentally got into
second crack and as you can see from the weight loss it was more water loss than
almost anything I've ever roasted before.

---

**Update (2017-11-25):** This morning (24h after it finished steeping) the
coffee was much more palateable.  I didn't have a chance to re-cup it but if I
remember I will tomorrow.  I've updated the rating from 2 to 3.
