---
title: Panama Volcan Baru Bambito
date: 2017-11-04T13:58:59
tags: [panama, volcan-baru, bambito]
guid: 9c72d053-628e-4504-80bc-2f4ce2c3b87e
total_roast: 12m23s
first_crack: 9m36s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.016
rating: 4
weight_loss: 15
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

> The dry fragrance touches on brown sugar and vanilla bean smells, along with a
> nice dried apple note. There's a clean sweetness in the coffee smells, and the
> wet aromatics show characteristics of raw brown sugar, and definitely some
> fruit, but hard to put my finger on exactly what. A honey to brown sugar
> sweetness is striking in the brewed coffee, and lays a stabilizing groundwork
> on which the rest of the profile rests. A marshmallow note accents the cup,
> along with green tea, and a flavor of apple and walnut that carries through to
> a clean aftertaste. Acidity is mild-to-moderate, but a tea-like cleanliness
> pulls the finish to a point. This coffee performed well for us at a wide range
> of roasts, and a great candidate for those who appreciate the roast toned
> bittersweetness that comes with 2nd snaps. Crisp, sweet, balanced, and clean,
> this is a coffee with staying power: meaning, yes, we'd drink it every day.

---

Acidity: Tart, bright

Sweetness: Faint, mostly in the finish

Mouthfeel: Slightly astringent

Flavor: Hard to place, but I would call it apple and shortbread cookie.

Finish: Homey; might be the best part of this coffee.  I can't give it a name
but it reminds me of vacations in Florida or traveling in Lithuania.

Balance: Great coffee.

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/panama-volcan-baru-bambito
