---
title: Kenya Muranga Riakiberu AA
date: 2017-09-02
tags: [kenya, muranga, riakiberu, aa]
guid: 70984540-91D3-11E7-A304-905A848F3B27
total_roast: 11m36s
first_crack: 9m8s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.03
rating: 3
---
## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

> The smells in the dry grounds of Riakiberu are attractive, City+ roasts offering
> a mix of malty sweetness, and berry jelly. Fruits are present without
> overpowering the aroma, and while smells of baked goods, caramelizing sugars,
> and such billow in the steam from the hot coffee, subtler accent notes like
> berry and melon compliment this sugary base. Riakiberu brews really well, City+
> roasts promising flavors of sagarcane juice, cantelope, and an interesting
> herbal note of celery soda. There's a honey-wheat flavor too that comes through
> in the finish that while a little odd for Kenya, but is just an afterthought as
> you pass through flavors of fruit tea, tart limeade, and lemon-rhubarb. Acidity
> is bright from the get go, the perception of citrus is apparent, and we noticed
> that the citric overtones gain momentum as the cup temperature cools. There's a
> tannic aspect in the finish that's similar to slightly over extracted black tea,
> and flavors of unrefined sweeteners like barley malt and rice syrup round out
> the finish.

---

When I brewed this coffee (cold brew, as usual) I brewed it with four instead of
seven cups, and then poured three extra cups through the grinds.  If the coffee
is noticeably weaker than normal I'd say that this is why.

---

I would say I can taste the cantalope some.  Unfortunately there is a vegetal
flavor that, I would guess, is due to an undeveloped roast.

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/kenya-muranga-riakiberu-aa
