---
title: Ethiopia Grade 1 Dry Process Yirga Cheffe Dumerso
date: 2017-11-15T06:57:30
tags: [ ethiopia, grade-1, dry-process, yirga-cheffe, dumerso ]
guid: 646fdf35-d962-4a25-8c2e-1a0b0de2a58d
total_roast: 14m2s
first_crack: 10m36s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.012
weight_loss: 16
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224429/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-gr-1-dry-process-yirg-dumerso

> This Dumerso dry-processed lot is a powerhouse in terms of fruit-forward
> aromatics. The dry-fragrance has a cornucopia of fruits, raspberry and ripe
> blueberry, Turkish apricots, grape juice, along with a substantial backdrop of
> bittersweet burnt sugars. The fruits approach floral dimensions, and a start
> jasmine note accents the ground coffee. The wet aromatics are equally intense,
> a representation of blackberry and strawberry toppings, a hint of dried mango,
> and a cacao-like bittersweetness in our roasts closer to Full City. The cup is
> predictably, loaded with fruit flavors, an uncompromising array of ripe and
> dry fruited notes that roasts north of 2nd snaps do little to tame. From
> tropical to temperate, fruits like strawberry, ripe blueberry, fruit lambic,
> jack fruit, and pineapple build as the cup temperature cools, and a mixed
> berry jam note lingers in the aftertaste. We found City roasts to have a
> citric quality too, like orange rind, a tartness that gives off acidic
> impression adding structure to the complex range of flavor notes. An
> impressive jasmine grace note shows clearly at a fairly wide roast range,
> adding to the complex layers of flavor. Full City roasts boast thick body,
> sticky fruit flavors, and a healthy backing of high % cacao bar. This coffee
> sits very heavy on the palate and keeps delivering through the long
> aftertaste.

---

Acidity: light acidty that contributes well to overall flavor

Sweetness: just a touch of sweetness, maybe magnified since this coffee is a
little bit overroasted.

Mouthfeel: a little astringent.

Flavor: very fruity.  I am having trouble placing the fruit this reminds me of
though.

Finish:  Pleasant, easy finish that continues the fruit notes.

Balance: This coffee is great.  I look forward to drinking and roasting the
rest.
