---
title: El Salvador Alpina Pacamara
date: 2017-11-27T13:56:34
tags: [el-salvador, pacamara, alpina, chinameca, san-miguel, tecapa-chinameca ]
guid: 9726ccc4-8606-4957-85b5-e94ad74b7003
total_roast: 11m36s
first_crack: 8m5s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.003
rating: 4
weight_loss: 16
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224449/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/el-salvador-alpina-pacamara

> This Pacamara lot from Alpina has such an interesting herbal sweetness in the
> cup. City and City+ roasts have flavors of sweet basil and celery soda, and an
> delightful green floral accent note. The fragrance and aroma smell complex,
> floral tea and sweet herbaceous notes permeate from the coffee, and the
> impressions I get are reminiscent of Maracaturra coffees, the large bean
> hybrid of Maragoype and Caturra that is popular in Nicaragua. This coffee
> excels as a pour over brew, with well articulated flavor notes discernible in
> the cup. Acidity is brilliant in light roasts, like tangy citrus, a vibrance
> that holds up as the coffee cools. The level of sweetness is moderate, and
> transparent like simple syrup sugar, lending sweetness without the added
> molasses flavors that come with sugar in the raw.

---

Acidity: Bright acidity reminiscent of some kind of citrus thing, or maybe
celery, as SM said.

Sweetness: The sweetness is subtle and pleasant.  I can taste it mostly on the
edges.

Mouthfeel: Oilier than I expected, given how light this roast turned out.

Flavor: Very rich; almost tastes coppery, but certainly not over-acidic.

Finish: A long, slow finish that echos the flavor.

Balance: This coffee is really good.  I associate it with the [last Salvadoran I
had][last] in that it has a very clean flavor, but it's not at all bland.

[last]: /posts/2017-10-21/
