---
title: Panama Volcan Baru Bambito
date: 2017-09-22
tags: [panama, volcan-baru, bambito]
guid: CEC4DD36-9F9D-11E7-9020-0DC2D5B86AB0
total_roast: 13m15s
first_crack: 10m20s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.023
weight_loss: 15
---


## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

> The dry fragrance touches on brown sugar and vanilla bean smells, along with a
> nice dried apple note. There's a clean sweetness in the coffee smells, and the
> wet aromatics show characteristics of raw brown sugar, and definitely some
> fruit, but hard to put my finger on exactly what. A honey to brown sugar
> sweetness is striking in the brewed coffee, and lays a stabilizing groundwork
> on which the rest of the profile rests. A marshmallow note accents the cup,
> along with green tea, and a flavor of apple and walnut that carries through to
> a clean aftertaste. Acidity is mild-to-moderate, but a tea-like cleanliness
> pulls the finish to a point. This coffee performed well for us at a wide range
> of roasts, and a great candidate for those who appreciate the roast toned
> bittersweetness that comes with 2nd snaps. Crisp, sweet, balanced, and clean,
> this is a coffee with staying power: meaning, yes, we'd drink it every day.

---

This was the first roast of the season where it was so cold outside it slowed
down the roast.  Just before first crack I put the lid of the bread maker on
partially to keep the cold air from blowing in.  We'll see what the effect is.

---

Acidity: The acidity of this roast is disticnty vegetal.  I am not a fan.

Sweetness:  I can barely taste any sweetness at all, which is a shame because
the previous roast was pretty sweet.

Finish:  If anything the finish remind me of spent coffee grounds; not good.

Overall: I'll have to give this a few days but as it stands I think I can
confidently say that the weather affected this roast negatively.

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/panama-volcan-baru-bambito
