---
title: Panama Volcan Baru Bambito
date: 2017-10-03
tags: [panama, volcan-baru, bambito]
guid: 3CD52360-A842-11E7-B47B-C523D60243D4
total_roast: 12m31s
first_crack: 9m45s
rating: 3
roast_level: FC+
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.014
weight_loss: 15
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

> The dry fragrance touches on brown sugar and vanilla bean smells, along with a
> nice dried apple note. There's a clean sweetness in the coffee smells, and the
> wet aromatics show characteristics of raw brown sugar, and definitely some
> fruit, but hard to put my finger on exactly what. A honey to brown sugar
> sweetness is striking in the brewed coffee, and lays a stabilizing groundwork
> on which the rest of the profile rests. A marshmallow note accents the cup,
> along with green tea, and a flavor of apple and walnut that carries through to
> a clean aftertaste. Acidity is mild-to-moderate, but a tea-like cleanliness
> pulls the finish to a point. This coffee performed well for us at a wide range
> of roasts, and a great candidate for those who appreciate the roast toned
> bittersweetness that comes with 2nd snaps. Crisp, sweet, balanced, and clean,
> this is a coffee with staying power: meaning, yes, we'd drink it every day.

---

It was chilly outside when I roasted this, but not so windy that I would have
expected the weather to affect the roast.  Given the durations above I am
clearly wrong.

---

I'll be travelling soon, so I didn't't make cold brew with this coffee.  If I
had I would have had to let about a third of it spoil.  Instead I decided I'd
brew it with my AeroPress.  With that in mind, this cupping (and any others that
are brewed with AeroPress in the future) will taste different than the cold brew
version would.

---

Aroma Comments: I put on cologne before I started this, so now my coffee smells
like teakwood.  Woops.

Acidity: Minimal.

Sweetness: Minimal.

Mouthfeel: Very slightly oily.

Flavor:  I can taste some of the green tea and walnut, but that's about it.

Finish:  As with some of the rest of this coffee, there just isn't much here.

Balance:  I like it.  Not overtly bad; not amazing.

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/panama-volcan-baru-bambito
