---
title: La Tacita Floral Gesha Blend
date: 2018-07-07T07:12:24
tags: [ gesha, blend ]
guid: 87007899-7d89-4fd3-9938-0591d8ba6fdb
total_roast: 11m47s
first_crack: 8m44s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.016
roast_level: C+
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180626024036/https://www.sweetmarias.com/la-tacita-floral-gesha-blend.html#product-info-cupping-notes

 > La Tacita Floral proves that when it comes to espresso, a little Gesha
 > cultivar goes a long way. To be fair, 1/3 is no small amount, and from the
 > high level of floral flavor and aroma found in the shot, I'd believe it if I
 > were told this was 100% Gesha cultivar. We roasted several batches of this
 > blend, and some of my favorites were on the lighter end of the roast
 > spectrum, but with stretched roast times. For example, a City+ roast that we
 > might normally achieve in 10 minutes, was dragged out an extra 3 to 4 minutes
 > by making more incremental adjustments in heat, which allows the coffee to
 > roast more evenly from the inside out. This also tends to mute acidity a bit,
 > which for a blend of coffees that have some of the highest acidity scores,
 > rolling off that intensity in the shot is a good thing. These long but light
 > roasts could be extracted at a 1:1 ratio (18 grams in / 18 grams out) and
 > show lemony brilliance without getting overly bright or metallic results. An
 > up front burst of Meyer lemon quickly fades to floral chocolate flavor that
 > coats your palate. There's an underlying sweetness that staves off any
 > bittering flavors that often come with chocolate roast tone, and unbound
 > floral accent notes proliferate. A strong note of pearl jasmine tea weaves
 > through the undercurrent of sweetened dark cocao, infusing the shot with
 > flowery perfumed note that lingers like a stargazer lily, as does a mix of
 > dark orange, chocolate syrup, and rose water. Our Full City roast was still
 > loaded with floral overtones and of course dark chocolate, a flavor mix
 > consistent with high % cacao bar spiked with jasmine flower. There was also a
 > dark fruit note different from our lighter roasts that comes off like
 > sweetened pomegranate juice, and with mandarin-like vibrance woven through.
 > This blend was constructed with espresso in mind, but each of the three
 > ingredients score 90+ on their own, and so shooting for a dual-use roast for
 > both brewing and espresso is a more than viable option.

## Roast Notes

It was so hot while I roasted, so cooling the beans may have been less effective
than normal.
