---
title: El Salvador Matalapa Tablon Calagual
date: 2018-06-25T21:52:59
tags: [ el-salvador, matalapa, tablon-calagual ]
guid: 41248c28-b0c3-4e5c-8d5b-5901f92e695c
total_roast: 12m
first_crack: 9m29s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.023
roast_level: FC
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190350/https://www.sweetmarias.com/el-salvador-matalapa-tablon-calagual.html

 > This Matalapa lot is an approachable cup, balanced core coffee flavors, and
 > infinitely drinkable. The dry fragrance from the ground coffee has hazelnuts
 > and honey granola scents, while the wet aromatics give a more volatile
 > aromatic emphasis to the dry fragrance, praline, almonds and a hint of dried
 > fruit. The cup flavors add to this a unique green tea accent at City+ roast,
 > with the cup dominated by layered caramel and nutty roast tones, and a twist
 > of orange rind in the finish. Body is moderate at this level, and at Full
 > City seems much more dense and opaque, as do the accompanying bittersweet
 > cocoa roast tones. It has mild acidity, and at City+ finds balance between
 > brightness, flavor and body. Finca Matalapa makes for a classic-toned SO
 > espresso at Full City roast, heavy cocoa roast flavor is accented by an
 > orange zest note, and followed by creamy macadamia nut in the aftertaste.

## Roast Notes

Didn't prewarm the roasting bowl as much as I normally do.

## Cupping

Acidity: Very low key acidity.  Not especially bright or dark.

Sweetness: Just a touch of sweetness on the back of my tongue.

Mouthfeel: The slightest bit oily.

Flavor: I taste all of the green tea, nutty, and dried fruit flavors.

Finish: The fruit notes of dark chocolate come out in the finish.  Pleasant.

Balance: Good.  Not as straightforward as most Salvadoran coffees, but also
probably better than most Salvadoran coffees!
