---
title: Sumatra Raja Batak Peaberry
date: 2018-07-01T06:34:34
tags: [ sumatra, peaberry, lintong ]
guid: c768d748-4f73-4221-b117-25e848c3cfc1
total_roast: 12m12s
first_crack: 10m12s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.019
roast_level: C+
rating: 3
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190252/https://www.sweetmarias.com/sumatra-raja-batak-peaberry-gcx-5433.html

 > The sweetness smelled in the dry fragrance has the pungency of black strap
 > molasses with peppery tobacco accents. Both City+ and Full City roasts have
 > potent, rustic sweetness, mixing syrupy fruit smells with earth-toned
 > bittersweetness. The aroma is quite herbal, and a complex mix of bittersweet
 > cocoa and green herbals are released on the break. The cup is complex, malt
 > syrups with bell pepper and burdock root accents as it cools. A note of dried
 > natural apricot comes up as you move through the cup, along with intense
 > bittersweet chocolate, and a rustic date sugar accent in the finish. Full
 > City roasts are brimming with bittering cacao/unsweetened chocolate flavors,
 > and as the coffee cools, top notes like pipe tobacco, green pepper, peat, and
 > hickory smoke come through in the finish. This coffee’s body is thick, so
 > viscous and syrupy. Add to this a muted acidity level, and you have the
 > makings for a wonderful espresso blend component, or even single origin. This
 > is a Sumatra that shows well in light roasting, even at City roast, however
 > my favorite brewed cup was in the City+ to Full City roast range, where earth
 > tones find balance among rustic syrupy sweetness. I also prefer letting this
 > coffee rest for a couple days before drinking, allowing the flavor notes to
 > coalesce 

## Roast Notes

This is the first time I've roasted peaberry or Sumatran coffee.  It was bizarre
to me how long it took to get to first crack.  I would have assumed peaberry
would roast faster, not slower.

## Cupping

Caveat lector: This is the first time I've had Peruvian coffee and so I am
caught somewhat flatfooted tasting it.

Acidity: Up front acidity that reminds me more of limes than many other fruits,
but not quite as tart.

Sweetness: There's a weird sweetness I can't place.  The SM notes say apricot,
and maybe that's it?

Mouthfeel: Rich and thick.

Flavor: This coffee is so rich.  To me it has a super condensed flavor that I
would call punchy.

Finish: Pleasant!  I taste the bell pepper here.

Balance: Good.  We'll have to see if it grows on me or not over time.
