---
title: Guatemala Xinabajul San Pedro Necta
date: 2018-04-21T16:13:16
tags: [ guatemala, san-pedro-necta ]
guid: 1ecdc796-c7fd-4498-b266-8dc62a33e68c
total_roast: 12m15s
first_crack: 10m13s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.032
roast_level: FC
weight_loss: 14
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180304214342/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/guatemala-xinabajul-san-pedro-necta

> The dry fragrance of San Pedro Necta has nice sweet smelling dry fragrance,
> allusions to ginger snap cookies at City roast level with a mix of dark sugar
> and subtle spice notes, and Full City roasts shift to strong bittersweetness
> that is accompanied by wafts of raisin and cola. There's a nice range of
> smells here, and adding hot water ushers in more roasted nut type smells in
> the light roast, whereas bittersweetness remains resolute at Full City, and
> breaking through the crust gives off an incredible smell of dark chocolate
> with dried fruit accents. As a cup, my City+ roast San Pedro Necta showcased
> flavors of toasted muscovado sugar and roasted almond, vanilla and cinnamon
> powder accents in the finish. Acidity is on the 'slight' side, but still
> offers a soft structure ala Red Delicious apples. There's a chocolate
> undertone too that flourishes when you reach Full City roast level. A nice,
> rich flavor of fine Dutch drinking cocoa comes through in darker roasts and
> hangs on long after the final sip. This is a great drinking coffee, and one
> that fits the daily drinker roster - sweet, balanced, bodied, and without any
> 'over the top', top notes. San Pedro Necta also makes a great dual-use coffee
> with SO espresso shots displaying rich chocolate tones and inky mouthfeel in
> the Full City roast range.

## Roast Notes
