---
title: Ethiopia Yirga Cheffe Wonago Town
date: 2018-08-07T13:08:32
tags: ["ethiopia", "yirga-cheffe", "wonago-town"]
guid: c37df82f-694f-4397-bf0d-abe05fa3b5cb
total_roast: 12m21s
first_crack: 9m18s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.023
roast_level: C+
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

 > The dry fragrance has a mix of sugar browning and spice smells in light to
 > middle roasting, dried ginger and molasses, a subtle dried cherry accent.
 > The wet aroma has a more intense sweetness that comes off like spiced
 > molasses cookies, characteristics sensed in the dry fragrance gaining
 > potency, and a whisp of florals comes through when breaking through the
 > crust. The cup meets expectations set by the aromatic profile, base brown
 > sugar and molasses flavors build as the cup cools, and baking spice hints
 > offer pleasant contrast. Florals are very subtle, and most notable when
 > drinking a hot cup. When the cup cools down the floral aromatic note fades,
 > leaving behind a flavor compound build on sugar browning sweetness, with
 > raisin and cinnamon spice accents, as well as a cane juice note in the
 > finish. There's a lemon rind like brightness that's on the mild side for
 > Ethiopia, and with a fairly weighty body, this coffee from Woreda Wonago
 > doubles well as a sweet single origin espresso.

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190306/https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-woreda-wonago.html#product-info-cupping-notes

## Cupping

Acidity: Nice tart acidity right at the very beginning with a weird acidity I
associate with the brown stuff in the middle of walnuts.

Sweetness: A very slight sweetness in the middle that is probably the molasses
flavor.

Mouthfeel: A little thick but not quite oily.

Flavor: Mostly what I taste is the molasses.  Can't place any ginger or cherry,
but definitely do taste some spice.

Finish: This is where it's the most spicey.  Very interesting!

Balance: Solid coffee.
