---
title: Kenya Nyeri Thageini AB
date: 2018-08-18T11:16:50
tags: [kenya, nyeri]
guid: 4e329f07-b6c0-4624-888d-02e30c06e3d4
total_roast: 11m14s
first_crack: 8m13s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.030
roast_level: C+
rating: 5
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm] ([wbm][wbm])

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/kenya-nyeri-thageini-ab-2018.html

[wbm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180810133217/https://www.sweetmarias.com/kenya-nyeri-thageini-ab-2018.html

> Thageini has a big berry-like fragrance coming out of the grinder, red
> raspberry and aromatic sugar notes builiding out a sweet smelling profile.
> This perfumed mix continues into the wet aroma, smells of fruits cooked with
> molasses sugars coming off the steaming coffee crust, and a baking spice note
> accenting the steam. Berry and unrefined sugar notes are the first flavors
> that come to mind when sipping the hot cup, like red berry cooked down to a
> sugary pastry filling, along with an orange rind note that adds a tartness to
> the profile. The cool brew further reinforces a fruit and raw sugar centered
> cup profile, and a spice note hints at cinnamon powder in the finish. Acidity
> is brightest in light roasts, tart citric aspects offering a contrasting, and
> somewhat rind-y vibrance. Don't take this coffee beyond Full City as the
> sweet, fruited flavors will be compromised. At Full City, however, dark
> blueberry and raspberry flavors are powerful, and the brightness that is found
> in lighter roasts is much more muted. This works in favor of single origin
> Kenyan espresso, no puckering acidity to take away from the delicous dark
> berry fruit flavors that make their way into the shot.
>
## Roast Notes

I spilled like, a fifth of the beans when pouring them out of the bread machine.
I tried to pick them all up but I surely dropped some, so the weight loss is
likely not to be trusted, and I probably got some old gross beans from a prior
roast too.

## Cupping

Acidity: Light acidity right off the bat, but permeates through the whole cup.

Sweetness: Sweetness near the back and through the finish.

Mouthfeel: Rich and velvety.

Flavor: I mostly taste the raspberry and other berry notes along with some of
the gentle acid at the beginning.

Finish: Excellent finish that evokes echoes of the berries and other sweet
notes.

Balance: Great coffee.
