---
title: Ethiopia Sidama Nansebo 
date: 2018-02-12T15:04:54
tags: [ ethiopia, sidama-nansebo ]
guid: 2d0a114c-6ee0-4f3e-8016-e36d0c34f2ed
total_roast: 12m16s
first_crack: 8m57s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.014
roast_level: FC
weight_loss: 15
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-sidama-nansebo

> Nansebo has an herbal sweetness like rue, backed with a flavor of white honey
> in City/City+ roasting that makes for a deliciously sweet Ethiopian cup. Clove
> spice hints mark the dry fragrance, along with perfumed orange smells in our
> light roasts. The wet aroma has a canned peach scent that culminates in a
> likeness of peach pie with graham cracker crust. As a brewed coffee, Nansebo
> pushes a deep level of honey sweetness at a wide range of roasts, City and
> City+ roasts striking a nice level of balance between fruited sweetness and a
> orange-like brightness. The cooling cup offers glimpses of stone fruit and
> citrus notes too, tart apricot, nectarine, and a slightly underripe orange
> flavor register. There's a contrasting, pleasant bittering sensation too that
> reminds me of peach skins too, sweet-to-tart flavors rounding out the long
> finish. Full City roast bear some darker fruited notes, plum and prune juice,
> but in low volume comparatively to core bittersweetness of honey-backed cocoa
> powder. Acidity is more muted at Full City too, and I found ours to make
> incredible single origin espresso. Espresso shots have focuesed fruited notes,
> blueberry and dark chocolate, tenedam spice, fresh coriander, and a nice
> citrus zing.

## Roast Notes

It was kinda cold outside while I roasted this (59°F;) I assume that's why this
took a minute longer roast than previously.

## Cupping

Acidity: Light, refreshing acidity that reminds me of a good Salvadoran.

Sweetness: Buttery sweetness reminiscent of cookies.

Mouthfeel: Surprisingly oily.

Flavor: I think I taste some of the flavors in the SM tasting, like the canned
peaches or tart apricot.

Finish: The finish ramps down quickly and cleanly, leaving behind gentle notes
of the flavor without typical souring notes.

Balance: This is great.  Oddly it doesn't match any prior tasting notes.  Weird.
