---
title: Ethiopia Dry Process Uraga Tome
date: 2018-10-26T07:01:11
tags: [ ethiopia, dry-process, yabito-tome, uraga ]
guid: f10d1333-c96c-47df-b67e-6bd3dde68631
total_roast: 13m37s
first_crack: 10m34s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.021
roast_level: C+
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm] [[wbm][wbm]]

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-dry-process-guji-uraga-tome.html

[wbm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180810133331/https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-dry-process-guji-uraga-tome.html

> We bought two lots from Tome, one wet processed, and this dry processed.
> They're both beautiful cups, and a side by side comparison shows just how much
> processing influences the cup. This DP is so fruit forward in comparison,
> strong dried and fresh fruit flavors, and sweetness with matched intensity. At
> City and City+ roast levels, the smells from the ground and wetted coffee are
> pretty incredible, peach, mango, molasses, raisiny dried fruit, and even
> subtle floral highllights. Closer to Full City brings about equalizing
> bittersweetness, but not without a high level of cooked fruit smells too. A
> brewed City roast highlights floral notes in Tome, a flavor of floral berry,
> blueberry, blackberry coming to mind. Fruit flavor notes are juicy, and
> candied in the lighter roasts, reminding me of aspects of stone fruit and
> papaya nectars, and berry flavored bubble gum. These heavier handed flavor
> tones are contrasted by delicate accent notes of hibiscus tea and rose petal
> florals when the coffee cools, that all together construct a complex flavor
> portrait. A cooled cup expresses some citrus and bittersweet cocoa notes as
> well, which a friend I was tasting with described as chocolate-covered,
> dehydrated orange slices. If you're a fan of fruit-forward naturals, you'll be
> amazed at all that Tome has to offer. Best to steer clear of 2nd snaps in
> order to enjoy what's special about this coffee.

## Roast Notes

It was really cold outside, hence the sluggish roast.  Also, this coffee seemed
to roast somewhat unevenly.  I didn't note if that happened last time but I
vaguely remember it being that way.

## Cupping

Acidity: Immediate bite at the first taste.  Reminds me of rhubarb.

Sweetness: Minimal.

Flavor: Tropical fruit flavors.

Finish: I get a rich, pleasant flavor on the finish that reminds me of the
orange, cocoa, and juice.

Balance: This coffee is great;  I think I might have underroasted it a touch
this time due to the whether but it still shines through.
