---
title: Costa Rica Helsar Santa Lucia
date: 2018-04-18T07:53:41
tags: [costa-rica, helsar, santa-lucia]
guid: 21b68c2e-84f4-4765-b3f5-251aa8fd4a74
total_roast: 12m3s
first_crack: 10m10s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.027
rating: 3
roast_level: FC
weight_loss: 14
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180304214338/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/costa-rica-helsar-santa-lucia

> Cupping a City+ roast of Santa Lucia, the ground coffee brings a subtle
> sweetness to the table, bittering core coffee characteristics present with a
> layer of unrefined sugar sweetness mixed in. The coffee makes quite a
> transformation from this humble start, wet aromatics giving promise of a
> bigger coffee than the fragrance lets on to. A coconut and dark chocolate
> smell comes up in the steam, along with fruited accents that are still a
> little on the dull side, but their presence is definite. And the brewed coffee
> gives the final show, a sweet undercurrent of toffee and honey flavors,
> offsetting central bittersweetness. There's life breathed into the fruited
> tones sensed early on in aroma, and they take form as accents of dried peach,
> whole dried banana, and coconut chips. Santa Lucia has lovely apple/malic
> acidic impression at this roast level too, which adds definition to the
> flavors in the cup profile. Body is noticeably juicy too, and I think taking a
> shade darker (Full City) will yield dense bittersweetness and viscous
> mouthfeel, not to mention make a good option for Costa Rican single origin
> espresso. 

## Cupping

*I still have a bit of a head cold which reduces my tasting ability.*

Acidity: Somewhat fruity acidity.

Sweetness: Very little sweetness.

Mouthfeel: Oily.

Flavor: Definitely dark chocolate notes along with coconut.  The peach flavor I
get is pretty stewed.

Finish: Pretty good; reminds me of the finish of chocolate ice cream.

Balance: Very good.  I wish I could focus more on the favor rather than tasting
past this cold.
