---
title: Ethiopia Grade 1 Dry Process Yirga Cheffe Dumerso
date: 2018-04-28T16:09:21
tags: [ ethiopia, grade-1, dry-process, yirga-cheffe, dumerso ]
guid: df52823a-cd40-4996-83c7-263612cc48cb
total_roast: 11m48s
first_crack: 9m51s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.043
rating: 4
roast_level: FC
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224429/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-gr-1-dry-process-yirg-dumerso

> This Dumerso dry-processed lot is a powerhouse in terms of fruit-forward
> aromatics. The dry-fragrance has a cornucopia of fruits, raspberry and ripe
> blueberry, Turkish apricots, grape juice, along with a substantial backdrop of
> bittersweet burnt sugars. The fruits approach floral dimensions, and a start
> jasmine note accents the ground coffee. The wet aromatics are equally intense,
> a representation of blackberry and strawberry toppings, a hint of dried mango,
> and a cacao-like bittersweetness in our roasts closer to Full City. The cup is
> predictably, loaded with fruit flavors, an uncompromising array of ripe and
> dry fruited notes that roasts north of 2nd snaps do little to tame. From
> tropical to temperate, fruits like strawberry, ripe blueberry, fruit lambic,
> jack fruit, and pineapple build as the cup temperature cools, and a mixed
> berry jam note lingers in the aftertaste. We found City roasts to have a
> citric quality too, like orange rind, a tartness that gives off acidic
> impression adding structure to the complex range of flavor notes. An
> impressive jasmine grace note shows clearly at a fairly wide roast range,
> adding to the complex layers of flavor. Full City roasts boast thick body,
> sticky fruit flavors, and a healthy backing of high % cacao bar. This coffee
> sits very heavy on the palate and keeps delivering through the long
> aftertaste.

## Roast Notes

Obviously I only gave first crack two minutes instead of my normal (for Dumerso)
three.  Also the outdoors temperature was lower and clearly kept me from
achieving first crack in the typical nine minutes.  I hope it's as good as it
has been in the past, nonetheless!

## Cupping

Acidity: Citric and malic acidity.

Sweetness: Berry sweetness.

Mouthfeel: Slightly oily.

Flavor: Fruity, berry flavors.  Floral notes as well.

Finish: Surprisingly citric finish.

Balance: Still the best.
