---
title: El Salvador Alpina Pacamara
date: 2018-01-31T16:37:42
tags: [el-salvador, pacamara, alpina, chinameca, san-miguel, tecapa-chinameca ]
guid: 23db3f16-caf3-4f50-9cf3-7a89b29fe632
total_roast: 10m47s
first_crack: 7m41s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.012
roast_level: FC
rating: 3
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224449/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/el-salvador-alpina-pacamara

> This Pacamara lot from Alpina has such an interesting herbal sweetness in the
> cup. City and City+ roasts have flavors of sweet basil and celery soda, and an
> delightful green floral accent note. The fragrance and aroma smell complex,
> floral tea and sweet herbaceous notes permeate from the coffee, and the
> impressions I get are reminiscent of Maracaturra coffees, the large bean
> hybrid of Maragoype and Caturra that is popular in Nicaragua. This coffee
> excels as a pour over brew, with well articulated flavor notes discernible in
> the cup. Acidity is brilliant in light roasts, like tangy citrus, a vibrance
> that holds up as the coffee cools. The level of sweetness is moderate, and
> transparent like simple syrup sugar, lending sweetness without the added
> molasses flavors that come with sugar in the raw.

## Roast Notes

Nothing especially unusual.  Beautiful day. Cooled with bowls then cookie sheet.
Preheated bowl.

## Cupping

Acidity: Atypical (of my roasts) bite at the front; maybe the citrus notes in
the SM tasting notes.

Sweetness: Very subtle sweetness, almost completely overwhelmed by flavor and
acidity.

Mouthfeel: Astringent.

Flavor: Having trouble putting my finger on it.  Maybe the celery mentioned
above?  Could be some other green plant?

Finish: Definitely tasting the celery soda on the finish.

Balance: Solid coffee, but not my favorite roast of this coffee.
