---
title: El Salvador Alpina Pacamara
date: 2018-01-19T14:11:40
tags: [el-salvador, pacamara, alpina, chinameca, san-miguel, tecapa-chinameca ]
guid: 11c0c59c-cfaf-4160-ba1e-1543cc5ac9eb
total_roast: 12m5s
first_crack: 9m17s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 0.990
roast_level: FC
weight_loss: 18
rating: 3
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20171110224449/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/el-salvador-alpina-pacamara

> This Pacamara lot from Alpina has such an interesting herbal sweetness in the
> cup. City and City+ roasts have flavors of sweet basil and celery soda, and an
> delightful green floral accent note. The fragrance and aroma smell complex,
> floral tea and sweet herbaceous notes permeate from the coffee, and the
> impressions I get are reminiscent of Maracaturra coffees, the large bean
> hybrid of Maragoype and Caturra that is popular in Nicaragua. This coffee
> excels as a pour over brew, with well articulated flavor notes discernible in
> the cup. Acidity is brilliant in light roasts, like tangy citrus, a vibrance
> that holds up as the coffee cools. The level of sweetness is moderate, and
> transparent like simple syrup sugar, lending sweetness without the added
> molasses flavors that come with sugar in the raw.

## Roast Notes

Cold day, but I preheated the bowl and that apparently worked really well.  On
top of that I used the dual bowl method of cooling and then when I was done
poured the beans in a cookie sheet.  Seemed to work well.

## Cupping

Acidity: Slight acidity at the front, which fades fairly quickly, leaving the
flavor fairly sweet in general.

Sweetness: I don't think that this is very sweet, except in contrast after the
acidity fades.

Mouthfeel: Not very oily.

Flavor: I can taste some of the floral notes; might even be able to pick out the
celery flavor.

Finish: This has a very straightforward finish that makes me think of graham
crackers.  Love it.

Balance: This coffee great, like most Salvadoran coffee.  Not the best, but
definitely good.
