---
title: Ethiopia Wet Process Hambela Hassan
date: 2018-08-24T07:32:42
tags: [ ethiopia, wet-process, hambela, guji ]
guid: 24cf96ac-8fb8-4a74-ab9c-0bbfb3c327c1
total_roast: 10m30s
first_crack: 8m57s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.045
roast_level: C
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm] ([wbm][wbm])

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-wet-process-hambela-hassan.html

[wbm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180810133526/https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-wet-process-hambela-hassan.html

> Delicious and delicate, this wet processed lot from Hambela Hassan is as sweet
> as it is floral, complex top notes burgeoning from the cups of light and
> middle roasts, and vibrant acidity helps construct a dynamic cup. The dry
> fragrance has perfumed florals, with a smell of peaches and cream, and a soft
> hint of vanilla. The wetted grounds of City roasts extend an aroma of peach,
> apricot, and nectarine, fruited smells with the volume of a natural process
> coffee, but more tea-like, and delicate in nature. City roasting is where it's
> at for me, a lovely cup profile built from notes of stone fruit and citrus,
> and easily discernible jasmine floral accents. The hot cup has apricot and
> Assam tea flavors, crystal clear sweetness, and with a very low bittering
> coffee tone underneath. As the coffee cools down some, a tangerine note
> presents a tart/sweet aspect that adds structure to the cup, and a layer of
> raw cane juice is experienced from start to finish. Citrus acidity seems to
> grow as you move through the coffee, and fruited flavors shift from
> apricot/nectarine, to tangy orange, pink grapefruit, and more. Hambela Hassan
> has a clean finish, and a flavor of English Breakfast tea highlights the long
> aftertaste. I did try a Full City roast too, but found that smokey roast tones
> detracted from the complexity found a couple shades lighter.

## Roast Notes

The roast times are probably off a little bit since I got distracted and started
the coffee before I started the timer.
