---
title: Peru La Communidad de La Palma
date: 2018-06-20T07:15:33
tags: [ peru, la-palma, san-ignacio, cajamarca ]
guid: 52dbb075-2f3b-4588-8dc0-4f33cc5f918f
total_roast: 11m30s
first_crack: 9m31s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.023
roast_level: FC
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190314/https://www.sweetmarias.com/peru-la-communidad-de-la-palma.html

 > The ground coffee has a clean scent of brown sugar and hazelnut, sort of a
 > butter/shortbread cookie smell. The addition of hot water pulls out sugar
 > browning sweetness, toffee nut smells, candied roasted almonds. Light roasts
 > have soft lemon acidity that's really a nice feature, a mellow tartness that
 > emerges amidst unrefined sugar and raw nut flavors like Brazil nut and
 > hazelnut. It adds a mouth cleansing affect in the finish too, which lends to
 > the perception of a clean finish. My roast that was just shy of Full City
 > developed a tasty milk chocolate flavor, the cooled cup showing a muted
 > raisin note too, like chocolate covered raisin. A clean and mild Peruvian
 > cup.

## Cupping

Caveat lector: This is the first time I've had Peruvian coffee and so I am
caught somewhat flatfooted tasting it.

Acidity: There's an almost overpowering lemony acidity in this cup.  Hard to
tell if it's underroasted vegetal flavor or the appropriate lemon shining
through.

Sweetness: There's a touch of sweetness that I taste on the sides of my tongue
which tastes related to the lemony flavor.

Mouthfeel: Almost effervescant!  Something about this coffee makes my tongue
feel like it is tingling.

Flavor: I don't get anything by the lemon and sugars.

Finish: Definitely agree with the tasting notes re the "cleansing affect"
ensuring a form of clean finish.

Balance: Hard to put my finger on it; I think I like this coffee but may revisit
this review.
