---
title: Ethiopia Illubabor Baaroo Cooperative
date: 2018-04-12T07:22:47
tags: [ ethiopia, illubabor, baaroo ]
guid: b90dd831-7568-40ca-bf55-837919def150
total_roast: 10m47s
first_crack: 8m12s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.021
roast_level: FC+
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180304214329/https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-illubabor-baaroo-cooperative-5572

> We're really pleased with this year's lot of Baaroo. A balanced coffee,
> Baaroo's profile has just the right levels of complex sugar browning sweetness
> and subtle top notes to reflect coffees from the origin. The dry fragrance has
> a smell of dark toffee, so sweet and candy-like, with an understated peach
> note of the canned, syrupy sweet variety. Adding hot water sees a boost in
> stone fruit aromatics, like apricot and brown sugar,, as well as a peak in
> sugary sweetness, a maple icing scent filling the steam. Baaroo is extremely
> versatile, and great at both light and dark roast levels. Notes of stone fruit
> reductions with unrefined sugars prevail across the roast spectrum, and darker
> roasts develop deep chocolate roast tones. Oddly enough, the floral side is
> most present in the hot cup, faint jasmine and lemon oil accent a honey-sweet
> cup. The cooler temperature allows for profile expansion and depth, and the
> profile is filled out with notes of raw honey, baking spices, slab apricot,
> and a well-integrated lemony acidity. There is a mingling of rindy citrus and
> cacao nibs in the finish too that interplay with one another nicely. Body is
> juicy, even at City roast level, and translates into great mouthfeel as both
> brewed coffee and espresso. Espresso shots of a Full City roast extract a rich
> chocolate syrup flavor, along with orange juice and licorice accents, and
> undeniable citrus brightness but without overpowering the shot. 

## Roast Notes

Was in a rush so didn't do the pan cooling I normally do.
