---
title: Ethiopia Gera Jimma Nano Challa Coop
date: 2018-05-10T18:26:48
tags: [ ethiopia, gera-jimma, nano-challa-coop ]
guid: 27c18b14-e517-4de3-b307-274ff3fc7ec8
total_roast: 10m36s
first_crack: 9m6s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.032
rating: 2
roast_level: City
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180304223514/https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:WGgbDUCsb5IJ:https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-gera-jimma-nano-challa-coop+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us

> Nano Challa has a honey sweet smell in lightest roasts (City), stone fruit and
> tea suggestions, and sugary sweetness that finds it's apex when adding hot
> water. Brown sugar and toffee smells are focused in the wet aroma, a candy
> sweetness that reminds me of torrone (minus the nuts), and the break releases
> a light accent of pearl jasmine tea, giving way to more weighty fruited smells
> that have elements of fruit cobbler. Brewed, Nano Challa produces a lightly
> fruited cup at City and City+ roast levels, with refined sweetness, and
> pristine finish. The underlying flavor is reminiscent of white honey, which is
> mildly fruited in flavor, and an aromatic note of ginger chew candies. Lighter
> roasts have a mild citrus note like orange juice, pulp and all, along with
> subtle Earl Grey and Jasmine accents. Darker fruit tones are built up at
> deeper roast levels, along with a Ricola-like dark herbal aspect, and the
> finish is marked by pleasant bittering qualities  of cacao and dried orange
> peel. A mild citrus-like acdity serves as a focal point too, especially in the
> lighter roasts, adding a mouthcleansing affect to the finish. This years' Nano
> Challa has a dense mouthfeel, especially in middle to dark roasting, making
> for a nice choice for espresso blend accent coffee. 

## Cupping

Acidity: Very astringent acidity.  Gut feeling is underroasted.

Sweetness: I get a touch of the sweetness but can barely taste it past the
acidity.

Mouthfeel: Dry, like the stuff between walnuts.

Flavor: To me this just tastes grassy.

Finish: I get some interesting flavors *long* after the finish.

Balance: Not great.  Next time I roast this I'll go for a darker roast.  Maybe
I'll revisit this cupping on Monday and see if I have acclimated to the coffee
more. freesdsfds
