---
title: Colombia Nariño Rio Juanambú
date: 2018-01-13T12:57:12
tags: [ colombia, rio-juanambú, nariño ]
guid: dcf278cd-5aa2-433c-9476-3dcd6421cdb4
total_roast: 11m14s
first_crack: 8m22s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 0.988
rating: 3
weight_loss: 18
roast_level: FC+
---

## Sweet Maria's

(From Google Cache:)

> The dry fragrance of Juanambú has a butter toffee nut smell to it, City and
> City+ roasts offer caramel/toffee overtones, with roasted almond and black
> walnut smells underneath. The level of sweetness is prominent in the wet
> aroma, a scent of fresh baked cinnamon rolls with white icing, and a strong
> note of caramelizing sugars. The cup has raw sugar sweetness that comes off in
> layers; dark brown sugar, vanilla caramels, malt syrup, and honeyed hints. At
> City there is a lemon vibrance that intensifies as the cup cools, tart, and
> tea-like, and subtle fruited notes of golden raisin and date pieces pop up.
> The finish is sweet in the short run, shifting to a long bittersweet end. This
> bittersweetness is more dominant in Full City roasts, but the sweet side of
> this equation is really hard to beat, let alone eclipse. I loved the
> brightness and fruit notes captured in our light roasts, but this is also a
> great option for those looking for coffees suited for 2nd snaps. Juanambú is
> made up of really dense beans (as a result of cultivar and altitude) that can
> handle high heat without issue.

---

## Roast Notes

I slightly overroasted this (just started second crack, touch of oil on the
surface of some beans) despite the fact that it was so much less time than
previously.  Instead of cooling with my normal dual bowl method, this time I
poured the beans into a cookie sheet.  Hard to say how well that worked.

## Cupping

Acidity: Typical Colombian acidity at the start.

Sweetness: Very minimal amount of a complex sweetness at the front.

Mouthfeel: A little oily.

Flavor: I am not sure I taste the various nut flavors that were advertised by
Sweet Maria's, but I am going to taste for them and see if I can pull them out.

Finish: As before, the finish for this coffee is surprisingly brief and
inoffensive.

Balance: This coffee is, as usual, good but not great.
