---
title: Ethiopia Sidama Nansebo 
date: 2018-01-06T14:45:45
tags: [ ethiopia, sidama-nansebo ]
guid: 41b621b7-9fa3-4e67-ada5-c4bb29ed2010
total_roast: 11m58s
first_crack: 8m38s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.07
rating: 4
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://www.sweetmarias.com/product/ethiopia-sidama-nansebo

> Nansebo has an herbal sweetness like rue, backed with a flavor of white honey
> in City/City+ roasting that makes for a deliciously sweet Ethiopian cup. Clove
> spice hints mark the dry fragrance, along with perfumed orange smells in our
> light roasts. The wet aroma has a canned peach scent that culminates in a
> likeness of peach pie with graham cracker crust. As a brewed coffee, Nansebo
> pushes a deep level of honey sweetness at a wide range of roasts, City and
> City+ roasts striking a nice level of balance between fruited sweetness and a
> orange-like brightness. The cooling cup offers glimpses of stone fruit and
> citrus notes too, tart apricot, nectarine, and a slightly underripe orange
> flavor register. There's a contrasting, pleasant bittering sensation too that
> reminds me of peach skins too, sweet-to-tart flavors rounding out the long
> finish. Full City roast bear some darker fruited notes, plum and prune juice,
> but in low volume comparatively to core bittersweetness of honey-backed cocoa
> powder. Acidity is more muted at Full City too, and I found ours to make
> incredible single origin espresso. Espresso shots have focuesed fruited notes,
> blueberry and dark chocolate, tenedam spice, fresh coriander, and a nice
> citrus zing.

## Roast Notes

I preheated the bucket, but didn't try anything special to cool down the beans
quickly.  While writing up these notes I noticed that I could hear the beans a
little bit; not cracking or crackling, but presumably still doing something, so
I poured the beans into a cookie sheet to allow them to cool faster.  I would
like to start doing that normally.

## Cupping

Acidity: Light acidity at the front in the beginning, quickly overwhelmed.

Sweetness: Chocolaty sweetness that reminds me viscerally of chocolate ice
cream.

Mouthfeel: Almost chalky, contributing to the chocolate flavor.

Flavor:  Chocolate and the fruity undertones of dark chocolate.

Finish: Chocolate!

Balance: This is good, but we'll see how I feel before the week is over.
