---
title: Ethiopia Limu Kossa Gidhey
date: 2018-07-14T06:48:12
tags: [ ethiopia, limmu-kossa ]
guid: 9f301031-b299-4ba7-ae9b-218590bffa17
total_roast: 11m
first_crack: 8m40s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.043
roast_level: C+
rating: 3
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190422/https://www.sweetmarias.com/ethiopia-limu-kossa-gidhey.html

 > Peach and lime smells are released in the dry fragrance, a dried stone fruit
 > sweetness and with zesty lime peel accents. Gidhey shows layered raw sugar
 > sweetness in the ground coffee and wet aroma, warmed caramel-y smells
 > released in the steam that have elements of caramelizing dark brown sugars,
 > panela, sucanat, and more. City roasts are the most floral, a fresh aroma of
 > gardenia flower coming through in the brewed coffee, along with a clean and
 > sweet impression of simple syrup sweetener. A lemon note lightly graces the
 > cup of light roasts too, providing a solidness in structure to an otherwise
 > rather delicate cup (these light roasts remind me of a delicate Yirga
 > Cheffe). The cooling cup reveals more fruited accents, pomelo tartness, peach
 > tea, along with a sweet flame grape note. The finish is pointed if not short,
 > and muted flavors of vanilla and powdered sugar come through in the finish,
 > and reminds me of biscochitios (often referred to as Mexican wedding
 > cookies). The perfumed qualities of Gidhey show best with light roasting, and
 > I recommend a rather tight roast range of City to City+.

## Cupping

Acidity: Bright but not overpowering acidity.

Sweetness: Sweetness mostly during the finish

Mouthfeel: Very thick and oily

Flavor: I taste some of the caramel and lemon flavors and *maybe* the gardenia,
but hard to tell.

Finish: A long finish that has an elegant shadow of the main body of the coffee.

Balance: Good.  Will update if it grows on me.
