---
title: Sumatra Raja Batak Peaberry
date: 2018-10-31T06:58:38
tags: [ sumatra, peaberry, lintong ]
guid: 55749f49-dd23-4727-bb2d-b96a8dc8ac17
total_roast: 13m50s
first_crack: 10m46s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 0.992
roast_level: FC
---

## [Sweet Maria's][sm]

[sm]: https://web.archive.org/web/20180609190252/https://www.sweetmarias.com/sumatra-raja-batak-peaberry-gcx-5433.html

 > The sweetness smelled in the dry fragrance has the pungency of black strap
 > molasses with peppery tobacco accents. Both City+ and Full City roasts have
 > potent, rustic sweetness, mixing syrupy fruit smells with earth-toned
 > bittersweetness. The aroma is quite herbal, and a complex mix of bittersweet
 > cocoa and green herbals are released on the break. The cup is complex, malt
 > syrups with bell pepper and burdock root accents as it cools. A note of dried
 > natural apricot comes up as you move through the cup, along with intense
 > bittersweet chocolate, and a rustic date sugar accent in the finish. Full
 > City roasts are brimming with bittering cacao/unsweetened chocolate flavors,
 > and as the coffee cools, top notes like pipe tobacco, green pepper, peat, and
 > hickory smoke come through in the finish. This coffee’s body is thick, so
 > viscous and syrupy. Add to this a muted acidity level, and you have the
 > makings for a wonderful espresso blend component, or even single origin. This
 > is a Sumatra that shows well in light roasting, even at City roast, however
 > my favorite brewed cup was in the City+ to Full City roast range, where earth
 > tones find balance among rustic syrupy sweetness. I also prefer letting this
 > coffee rest for a couple days before drinking, allowing the flavor notes to
 > coalesce 


## Roast Notes

First crack was weak and relatively brief.  I tried to avoid cooling the beans
by keeping them inside till right before I poured them into the mixing bowl.  I
am skeptical of the recorded weight loss.
