---
title: Sweet Maria's Ethiopiques Blend
date: 2019-06-04T21:37:13
tags: []
guid: 538325d4-d39c-4787-a28e-f35756ba7236
total_roast: 14m32s
first_crack: 11m28s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.011
roast_level: C+
---

## [Sweet Maria's](https://web.archive.org/web/20190504003715/https://www.sweetmarias.com/sweet-maria-s-ethiopiques-blend.html)

> By standard cupping methods for brewed coffees, the profile is much "bigger"
> than previous years, and extracting this blend in an espresso machine produces
> something very intense, sweet, and complex. The dry fragrance of City roasts
> have citrus and tropical fruit suggestions, which are still prevalent in
> darker roasts but with an overlay of chocolate notes. The wet aroma is
> downright mouthwatering. Fruited notes are like peaches and apricots baked
> with brown sugar, spiced cake, and floral hints - our FC smelled like
> jasmine-infused dark chocolate bar. As a brewed coffee, this is a really
> amazing blend. So versatile, showing great from City to Full City, lightest
> roasts being very fruit-forward and clean - nectarine, mango, fragrant berry.
> It shows surprising level of body at these light roast levels too, carrying
> with it a syrupy-thick sweetness. Full City roasts develop rich chocolate
> flavors, with a nice slab of blackberry syrup. Ethiopiques makes for an
> intense ride through the espresso machine. The chocolate roast taste is
> pungent, aggressive, bittersweet, and long-lasting on the palate. But it is
> also very clean, succinct, not earthy or rustic. On top of this are intense
> florals - jasmine and sweet pea - lemon oil and rind, raisiny ripe fruit and
> red berries. The body seems bolstered by the intense cup flavors, and has the
> effect of satiny chocolate. It's fantastic! My preference is about 2 oz in 24
> seconds, brew head temp right around 205 degrees. We are finding this also
> makes amazing Americano (espresso + water), which is no surprise. This can
> also be used as the "bright" component in a blend that tones it down a bit.
> For example 2/3 Brazil or El Salvador with 1/3 Ethiopiques.
