---
title: "Ethiopia Dry Process Guji Shakiso Hambela Dabaye"
date: 2019-12-11T19:25:47
tags: [ ethiopia, hambela, guji, shakisso, dry-process ]
guid: cda068ea-58bf-4a6a-919d-83f4a9f1fc52
total_roast: 14m19s
first_crack: 12m17s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.016
roast_level: C+
---

## Sweet Maria's

> After last year's standout dry process "Hambela Hassan" coffee, we anticipated high quality from this year's lot. Hambela Dabaye certainly delivers. Light roasts have berry fruit and a baking spice laden fragrance, with creamy vanilla/caramel sweetness underneath. The aroma has a strawberry jam element, fruit/berry and caramelizing sugar sweet smells lace the aromatically potent steam. City and City+ roasts are pretty amazing when brewed as pour over. The cup is remarkably clean considering how this coffee is processed. Berry notes are evident right off the bat, strawberry jam and berry-like brightness illuminating the cup. Fruited notes hint at sweet citrus and peach puree, and the flavors are juicy and clean. I prefered my lightest roasts of Hambela, where fruit and even a tart acidic impression are present. It cups most like a washed coffee in this context, albeit a fruit forward washed coffee. Full City roasts are still delicious but trade vibrance and clear fruit flavors for pleasantly bittering roast tone more dried fruit characteristics. If you're looking for a dry process Ethiopia espresso, this is the one to pick up (of the two currently listed) as body is opaque and weighty. But because I think this is too wild for the average espresso drinker, I'm withholding the espresso recommendation from the coffee "specs" tab and short description.

## Roast Notes
