---
title: Guatemala Acatenango Gesha
date: 2019-05-22T07:24:07
tags: [ guatemala, acatenango, gesha ]
guid: 5babdc00-239a-42b2-9d32-fcd7c4a00176
total_roast: 13m55s
first_crack: 10m53s
start_weight: 1.2
end_weight: 1.016
roast_level: C+
---

## [Sweet Maria's](https://web.archive.org/web/20190504003641/https://www.sweetmarias.com/guatemala-acatenango-gesha-5936.html)

> The cup is both floral and brisk, a flavor combo not necessarily unique to
> Gesha cultivar, but certainly unique to most Latin American coffees. The dry
> fragrance might lead you to believe otherwise showing more of a cinnamon/sugar
> combination that is still alluring, but not the perfumed smell I expected. It
> wasn't until breaking through the wetted crust that I uncovered attractive
> jasmine flower aromatics, along with wafts of honey and tea. An herbal
> sweetness marks the aroma, as do licorice tea, and a palm sugar scent as you
> near Full City. This coffee shows well in light to middle roasts, where layers
> of raw sugar sweetness are accented by floral hints and an herbaceous
> Darjeeling tea note. As the cup cools, sweetness builds in strength, and what
> starts out as transparent simple syrup sweetness, ends up with suggestions of
> toffee malt and molasses. The cup has moderate acidity that comes off very
> tea-like, and with a citrus element as well. And while I don't recommend Full
> City roasts for brew, as most of the floral and tea notes will be compromised,
> it makes for a chocolate-y and floral espresso. A sweet toffee taste is
> underscored by fine, bittersweet cacao bar, and these shots produce incredibly
> thick body that weighs heavy on the palate.
